feat: small build docs refactor and adding build getting started (#16542)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/developers/getting_started.md

Reviewer: @alejoamiras we had discussed keeping the current Quickstart with some quick actions interacting with the testnet and adding this new one as another page below it, still in the Getting Started section. wdyt?

Reviewer 2: Hey guys! Yeap. There is a reasoning behind that: We need at least a dopamine hit, or something else than copy / paste code + compile + codegen in the first 20-ish minutes. 

Although I think our "Getting Started on Sandbox" teaches about "aztec-wallet" which it's almost never again used, it does help "connect to cli", "deploy a smart contract", "play with balances" and it's fairly straight forward. I dare to say it's probably the easiest tutorial we have. We might re-think what this first of dopamine hit looks like in the future, but it's good for now. 

So, under our "Getting Started" we should have:

1. "Deploying in Sandbox" => (Our thing with Sandbox now) 
2. "Implementing a Token" => (Current work by Esau)
3. "Starter Examples Repository" => (Github Starter Repository)

I also want to argue about the "Setting up Testnet" also having a "Migrating from Sandbox to Testnet" which is extremely weird. I think we can even connect "Getting Started on Testnet" on our Getting Started, but, that's a topic for another task 😬

description: Quick start guide for developers to set up their environment and begin building on Aztec.
---

> # Getting Started

Reviewer: This top level heading is redundant, it can be removed

> ## Tutorial: Write your first Aztec contract and deploy it to the sandbox

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Write your first Aztec contract and deploy it to the sandbox
```

### Installation

#### Prerequisites:
Before you start, ensure you have a working environment. You need:
* Docker

> * `aztec-up` (installed by running `bash -i <(curl -s https://install.aztec.network)` in your terminal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `aztec-up` - install by running 
```sh
bash -i <(curl -s https://install.aztec.network)
```
```

Reviewer: the required trailing ``` are missing in the suggestion because they are cut off by the github formatter

* Node.js (minimum version 22)

For easier development, install the Noir extension/LSP for VSCode ([download](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=noir-lang.vscode-noir)).

Once the prerequisites are met, run this command to install the Aztec toolchain:

> `aztec-up 1.2.1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`aztec-up #include_version_without_prefix`
```
This will ensure that the version used for the tutorial matches the docs version.

> `aztec-up 0.89.7`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`aztec-up #include_version_without_prefix`
```

> (optional) To set up the LSP for Aztec programming, go to the Noir extension settings in VSCode and under `Noir: Nargo Path` set this value to the location of `aztec-nargo` installed in the command above (this should be in `~/.aztec/bin/aztec-nargo`). `aztec-nargo` is the noir build tool pinned at a version bundled with each Aztec release to ensure compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(optional) To set up the LSP for Aztec programming, go to the Noir extension settings in VSCode and under `Noir: Nargo Path` set this value to the location of `aztec-nargo` installed in the command above (this should be in `~/.aztec/bin/aztec-nargo`). `aztec-nargo` is the Noir build tool pinned at a version bundled with each Aztec release to ensure compatibility.
```

### Project setup and structure

Clone the [`aztec-examples` repository](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-examples) and navigate to the `starter-token/start-here` folder. The contents of this folder illustrate project structure and serve as a reference for this tutorial.

This tutorial uses both aztec.nr and aztec.js to write code that interacts with the network.

> #### aztec.nr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Aztec.nr
```
Let's be consistent everywhere with how we reference Aztec.nr. I propose using capital "A", Aztec.nr (not aztec.nr or `aztec.nr`). wdyt?

Author: No preference, happy with capital "A" !

> The framework for writing Aztec contracts in Noir. Noir is an agnostic DSL; `aztec.nr` is a package that enables Noir to interact with the Aztec protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framework for writing Aztec contracts in Noir. Noir is a chain-agnostic Domain Specific Language (DSL) for writing zero-knowledge proofs; Aztec.nr is a package that enables Noir to interact with the Aztec protocol.
```

Key `aztec.nr` goals:
* Provide rails that help you implement best practices
* Make unsafe operations clear

> #### aztec.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Aztec.js
```
Let's make references to Aztec.js consistent as well, with capitalization.

The library for network interaction, exposing contracts, accounts, and execution environments in JavaScript.

> ### Define a contract with aztec.nr

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Define a contract with Aztec.nr
```

> First, take a quick look at Nargo.toml in `nr/src.`

Reviewer: I haven't seen the convention of putting Noir code into an `nr/` folder. Typically I see something like `contracts/`. This may be devs first experience with Aztec, so introducing them to conventions across the ecosystem will make their experience easier.

Reviewer: Also, I don't love that we are having people clone an external thing and having them jump back and forth between this tutorial page and the code in `aztec-examples`. Can we just pull what they should be looking at directly into this page?

Author: Hmm, okay I just did this for consistency between `ts / nr` as top level language categorizations. I have changed this to `contracts` though. Have addressed the second point as well !

This file is required and defines the contract's metadata and dependencies (including `aztec.nr`).

> After reviewing `Nargo.toml`, you can start reviewing the contract itself. Navigate to `nr/src/main.nr` and review the code stub.

Reviewer: Can we point out what they should be reviewing / looking for? This is going to be new code to many people and they likely don't know what to look for. Readers will be more comfortable if we explicitly direct their attention.

Author: Yep, thanks for the shout. Have added it

This code is a bare-bones Aztec contract. It imports the `aztec` macro, which defines and annotates a contract using the `contract` keyword. Macros are very important and prevalent throughout Aztec contracts, because aztec.nr uses them to inject code into and transform code of the structs and functions they decorate.

> This contract doesn't do much yet. You'll flesh it out in the next section of this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
In general i think less text is better. If it can be removed without detracting from the tutorial, I would remove it.

> ### Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Writing the Contract
```

> # Tutorial: Building the Contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building the Contract
```
Single `#` should only be used at the top of the page. And a top level heading isnt actually needed on docusaurus pages because there is a page name in the front-matter.

> ## Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I think the `## Contract` heading is sufficient

> This tutorial shows you how to build a token contract with both public and private functionality on Aztec. You'll start with a basic public token (similar to an ERC-20), then add private state and functions, implement cross-domain interactions between private and public execution, and finally explore the composability of Aztec contracts through cross-contract interactions.

Reviewer: This reads like another page was pasted in. The transition could be nicer.

```suggestion
In this section you will build a token contract with both public and private functionality on Aztec. You'll start with a basic public token (similar to an ERC-20), then add private state and functions, implement cross-domain interactions between private and public execution, and finally explore the composability of Aztec contracts through cross-contract interactions.
```

The token contract used in this tutorial has two basic operations: mint and transfer in both public and private. Only designated owners can mint, while anyone with a sufficient balance can transfer.

> Please make sure to import any missing definitions as you come across them when following along with this tutorial. The imports and code snippets shared are assumed to be placed directly inside the brackets after `pub contract StarterToken {`.

Reviewer: Can we show exactly what this should look like directly on this page? This isn't super clear and will likely be confusing for folks that have never seen noir projects or aztec contracts before.

Reviewer: It may be worth putting the `StarterToken` contract into the noir-contracts repo so we can pull the code  directly into this tutorial with the include_code macro. This will help make the tutorial more readable and maintainable.

Author: A good point, have added the code directly in here. I will put the `StarterToken` contract in the docs/ code section in another iteration of this.
